Hi there,
and welcome to your second milestone project.
This project is going to be pretty cool.
It's going to allow us to store the books
we're reading and then go back
and mark them as read.
So, for example, we can keep track
of everything we've read so far
and what we want to read in the future.
The most exciting part about this project though,
is the way we're going to build it.
We're going to start by using an in memory database,
which is just a Python list.
Then we're going to extend it,
so that instead of saving things in a list,
it saves them in a file.
And afterwards, we're going to extend it further still,
like saving things to a SQL database.
Building the project in these three distinct steps
is going to help us really understand
what's going on behind the scenes.
So please bear with me as we go through this.
We're going to have some coding sessions,
like the one you see in your video right now
interspersed with some slightly more
theoretical sessions where we'll talk about
databases and how they work,
and also how to use them.
If you don't know what a database is, don't worry.
Through this section, you're going
to understand exactly what goes on
inside a database and why we want to use them.
Your milestone project, though,
is going to be a book list.
So in the next lecture,
you're going to have a brief explaining exactly
what I want you to do for this project.
But I also wanted to give you some
brief instructions in this video,
just to help you along your way.
Our project is going to have two files.
It's going to have an app file,
and it's also going to have a package,
which is going to be called utils.
Not ITOs, utils.
And inside utils, we're going to have another
file which we're going to call database.py.
This database.py is going to be
concerned with storing and retrieving
books from a list.
Okay, so it's not really going to be
a SQL database just now it's going to be
an in memory database.
And we're going to have a books list,
which is going to be an empty list to begin with.
And we're also going to have some functions here
to add a new book to our list,
to retrieve the books from our list,
and so forth.
The brief is going to have a lot more information
on exactly the layout of this file
and how it's going to be used.
In app.py, we're going to have our user menu.
Of course, this is going to be
a text based application,
we haven't looked at making graphical interfaces just yet.
So we're going to do everything via text.
For that, we are going to have two things.
First one is we are going to import database
in order that we can deal with saving things
to our books list and so forth.
And we're also going to have a user choice.
And this is going to be a multi-line string,
which is going to describe to the user
what they can do.
So I am going to just copy it from my notes here.
And like so, your choice here.
So the user choice is what we're
going to print out for the user
to know what sort of things they can type.
And that's going to be
'a' to add a new book, 'l' to list all books,
'r' to mark a book as read, 'd' to delete a book,
and 'q' to quit.
We've already created a menu
for our last milestone project,
so you know how this goes.
We're going to have a menu here.
And then we are going to sort of
get the user input.
And then we're going to have a user input
is not 'q', y loop.
And here we're going to ask the user stuff.
Sorry, not going to ask the user stuff,
but we're going to actually
deal with the user's inputs.
So if they enter 'a', we're going to call
a function that adds a book.
If they enter 'l',
we're going to call a function that lists all books,
and so forth.
So down here, you'll probably have
something that looks like prompt_add_book.
And def list_books.
And def prompt_read_book.
And def prompt_delete_book.
Like so.
So each of these functions should do something.
This one's probably going to ask for
book name and author.
This one's gonna show all the books in our list.
This one's probably ask for book name
and change it to 'read' in our list.
And this one's going to remove book from list.
Ask for book name and remove book from list.
So these are probably going to be your functions.
In the prompt add book,
you're going to be interacting with the database file
to add a new book to our database.
What I'm thinking is a database file
will have something like add_book.
And that's going to take the book name and author.
And there's probably going to do something
like books_append name is name
and author is author, and read is false.
Because it's not been read at the start.
Okay.
Now you'll have to create other functions here
to do something like retrieve all
the books from our list.
You're going to have to add something
to modify a book so it is now read,
and of course, delete a book.
And also you'll have to implement
this menu here and all these functions.
Read the brief in the very next lecture.
It's got a bunch more information
on exactly the motivation behind this project
and also some hints and tips to help you
along your way.
But please do attempt this on your own
before moving onto the next programming video
where we'll be implementing this.
I'll see you soon.